# zx_resource_create

## NAME

resource_create - create a resource object

## SYNOPSIS

```
#include <zircon/syscalls.h>

zx_status_t zx_resource_create(zx_handle_t parent_rsrc,
                               uint32_t options,
                               uint64_t base,
                               size_t len,
                               const char* name,
                               size_t name_size,
                               zx_handle_t* out_handle)


```

## DESCRIPTION

**resource_create**() creates an resource object for use with other DDK
syscalls. Resources are typically handed out to bus drivers and rarely need to
be interacted with directly by drivers using driver protocols. Resource objects
grant access to an addresss space range starting at *base* up to but not
including *base* + *len*. Two special values for *kind* exist:
**ZX_RSRC_KIND_ROOT** and **ZX_RSRC_KIND_HYPERVISOR**. These resources have no
range associated with them and are used as a privilege check.

*parent_rsrc* must be a handle to a resource of *kind* **ZX_RSRC_KIND_ROOT**.

*options* must specify which kind of resource to create and may contain optional
flags. Valid kinds of resources are **ZX_RSRC_KIND_MMIO**, **ZX_RSRC_KIND_IRQ**,
**ZX_RSRC_KIND_IOPORT** (x86 only), **ZX_RSRC_KIND_ROOT**,
**ZX_RSRC_KIND_HYPERVISOR**, and **ZX_RSRC_KIND_VMEX**.
The latter three must not be paired with non-zero values for *base* and *len*,
as they do not use an address space range.
At this time the only optional flag is **ZX_RSRC_FLAG_EXCLUSIVE**. If
**ZX_RSRC_FLAG_EXCLUSIVE** is provided then the syscall will attempt to
exclusively reserve the requested address space region, preventing other
resources creation from overlapping with it as long as it exists.

*name* and *name_size* are optional and truncated to **ZX_MAX_NAME_LENGTH** - 1.
This name is provided for debugging / tool use only and is not used by the
kernel.

On success, a valid resource handle is returned in *out_handle*.

## RETURN VALUE

**resource_create**() returns **ZX_OK** on success. In the event of failure, a
negative error value is returned.

## RIGHTS

The handle will have *ZX_RIGHT_TRANSFER* (allowing it to be sent to another
process via channel write), *ZX_RIGHT_DUPLICATE* (allowing the handle to be
duplicated), *ZX_RIGHT_INSPECT* (to allow inspection of the object with
[object_get_info](object_get_info.md) and *ZX_RIGHT_WRITE* which is checked by
**resource_create**() itself.

## ERRORS

**ZX_ERR_BAD_HANDLE** the *src_obj* handle is invalid.

**ZX_ERR_WRONG_TYPE** the *src_obj* handle is not a resource handle.

**ZX_ERR_ACCESS_DENIED** The *src_obj* handle is not a resource of *kind*
**ZX_RSRC_KIND_ROOT**.

**ZX_ERR_INVALID_ARGS** *options* contains an invalid kind or flag combination,
*name* is an invalid pointer, or the kind specified is one of
**ZX_RSRC_KIND_ROOT** or **ZX_RSRC_KIND_HYPERVISOR** but *base* and *len* are
not 0.

**ZX_ERR_NO_MEMORY** Failure due to lack of memory. There is no good way for
userspace to handle this (unlikely) error. In a future build this error will no
longer occur.

## SEE ALSO

[handle_close](handle_close.md), [interrupt_create](interrupt_create.md),
[ioports_requeat](ioports_request.md),
[vmo_create_physical](vmo_create_physical.md)

